dev-itpro/developer/triggers-auto/xmlporttableelement/devenv-onaftergetrecord-xmlporttableelement-trigger.md, before:

---
title: "OnAfterGetRecord (Xml Port Table Element) Trigger"
ms.author: solsen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/14/2021
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
---
[//]: # (START>DO_NOT_EDIT)
[//]: # (IMPORTANT:Do not edit any of the content between here and the END>DO_NOT_EDIT.)
[//]: # (Any modifications should be made in the .xml files in the ModernDev repo.)

# OnAfterGetRecord (Xml Port Table Element) Trigger
> **Version**: _Available or changed with runtime version 1.0._

Runs after a record is retrieved from a table and before it is exported to the XML document.



## Syntax
```
trigger OnAfterGetRecord()
begin
    ...
end;
```



[//]: # (IMPORTANT: END>DO_NOT_EDIT)
## See Also  
[Getting Started with AL](../../devenv-get-started.md)  
[Developing Extensions](../../devenv-dev-overview.md)  
[OnAfterGetRecord (Page) Trigger](../page/devenv-onaftergetrecord-page-trigger.md)
[OnAfterGetRecord (Request Page) Trigger](../requestpage/devenv-onaftergetrecord-requestpage-trigger.md)
[OnAfterGetRecord (Request Page Extension) Trigger](../requestpageextension/devenv-onaftergetrecord-requestpageextension-trigger.md)
[OnAfterGetRecord (Page Extension) Trigger](../pageextension/devenv-onaftergetrecord-pageextension-trigger.md)
[OnAfterGetRecord (Report Data Item) Trigger](../reportdataitem/devenv-onaftergetrecord-reportdataitem-trigger.md)

Commit message:

port content table(extension), xmlports (and elements)

dev-itpro/developer/triggers-auto/xmlporttableelement/devenv-onaftergetrecord-xmlporttableelement-trigger.md, after:

---
title: "OnAfterGetRecord (Xml Port Table Element) Trigger"
ms.author: solsen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/14/2021
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
---
[//]: # (START>DO_NOT_EDIT)
[//]: # (IMPORTANT:Do not edit any of the content between here and the END>DO_NOT_EDIT.)
[//]: # (Any modifications should be made in the .xml files in the ModernDev repo.)

# OnAfterGetRecord (Xml Port Table Element) Trigger
> **Version**: _Available or changed with runtime version 1.0._

Runs after a record is retrieved from a table and before it is exported to the XML document.



## Syntax
```
trigger OnAfterGetRecord()
begin
    ...
end;
```



[//]: # (IMPORTANT: END>DO_NOT_EDIT)

## Remarks  
 This trigger is only used to export data. It is typically used to manipulate the fields that are being exported from the table and to calculate the variables that depend on the record.  

## See Also  
[Getting Started with AL](../../devenv-get-started.md)  
[Developing Extensions](../../devenv-dev-overview.md)  
[OnAfterGetRecord (Page) Trigger](../page/devenv-onaftergetrecord-page-trigger.md)  
[OnAfterGetRecord (Request Page) Trigger](../requestpage/devenv-onaftergetrecord-requestpage-trigger.md)  
[OnAfterGetRecord (Request Page Extension) Trigger](../requestpageextension/devenv-onaftergetrecord-requestpageextension-trigger.md)  
[OnAfterGetRecord (Page Extension) Trigger](../pageextension/devenv-onaftergetrecord-pageextension-trigger.md)  
[OnAfterGetRecord (Report Data Item) Trigger](../reportdataitem/devenv-onaftergetrecord-reportdataitem-trigger.md)
