dev-itpro/developer/properties/devenv-occurrence-property.md, before:

---
title: "Occurrence Property"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 10/01/2020
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
ms.assetid: 8257f098-a61b-4053-9f88-a3f95e0ec7d2
caps.latest.revision: 5
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
---

# Occurrence Property

Sets a value that specifies whether an attribute must occur in the data that is being imported or exported.  
  
## Applies to  

- Field attributes in XMLports  
- Text attributes in XMLports
  
## Property Value  
  
|**Value**|**Description**|  
|---------------|---------------------|  
|**Required (default)**|If the attribute must be part of the data.|  
|**Optional**|If the attribute does not have to be part of the data.|  

## Syntax

```AL
Occurrence = Optional;
```
  
## Remarks  

This property is primarily used to ensure that the XML data that you are importing conforms to the data structure in [!INCLUDE[d365fin_long_md](../includes/d365fin_long_md.md)].  
  
## See Also  

[Properties](devenv-properties.md)

Commit message:

removing manual properties, renaming properties-auto to properties

dev-itpro/developer/properties/devenv-occurrence-property.md, after:

---
title: "Occurrence Property"
ms.author: solsen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 11/12/2020
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
---
[//]: # (START>DO_NOT_EDIT)
[//]: # (IMPORTANT:Do not edit any of the content between here and the END>DO_NOT_EDIT.)
[//]: # (Any modifications should be made in the .xml files in the ModernDev repo.)
# Occurrence Property
> **Version**: _Available from runtime version 1.0._

Sets a value that specifies whether an attribute must occur in the data that is being imported or exported.

## Applies to
-   Xml Port Field Attribute
-   Xml Port Text Attribute

## Property Value

|Value|Description|
|-----------|---------------------------------------|
|**Required**|If the attribute must be part of the data. This is the default value.|
|**Optional**|If the attribute does not have to be part of the data.|
[//]: # (IMPORTANT: END>DO_NOT_EDIT)

## Syntax

```AL
Occurrence = Optional;
```
  
## Remarks  

This property is primarily used to ensure that the XML data that you are importing conforms to the data structure in [!INCLUDE[d365fin_long_md](../includes/d365fin_long_md.md)].  
  
## See Also  
[Getting Started with AL](../devenv-get-started.md)  
[Developing Extensions](../devenv-dev-overview.md)
