dev-itpro/includes/fields-obsolete-ru.md, before:

---
author: AndreiPanko

ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 01/08/2021
ms.author: andreipa
---
<!--Currently, no fields are marked as ObsoleteState:Pending in the RU version.-->
The following fields are marked as ObsoleteState:Pending in the RU version.

|Table ID|Table Name|Field ID|Field Name|Comments|
|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|27|Item|12400|CD Specific Tracking|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|83|Item Journal Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|83|Item Journal Line|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|32|Item Ledger Entry|12420|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|169|Job Ledger Entry|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|210|Job Journal Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|242|Source Code Setup|12450|Item Receipt|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|242|Source Code Setup|12451|Item Shipment|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|307|Inventory Buffer|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12400|Item Receipt Nos.|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12401|Posted Item Receipt Nos.|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12402|Item Shipment Nos.|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12403|Posted Item Shipment Nos.|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12404|CD Header Nos.|Will be removed in a later release.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12405|Posted Direct Transfer Nos.|Replaced by field Direct Transfer feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12416|Check CD No. Format|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|336|Tracking Specification|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|336|Tracking Specification|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|337|Reservation Entry|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|337|Reservation Entry|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|338|Entry Summary|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|338|Entry Summary|14901|Lot/CD Exists|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|1003|Job Planning Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|5773|Registered Whse. Activity Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6502|Item Tracking Code|14910|CD Specific Tracking|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6502|Item Tracking Code|14913|CD Warehouse Tracking|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6507|Item Entry Relation|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6509|Whse. Item Entry Relation|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6515|Package No. Information|9|CD Header No.|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|6515|Package No. Information|11|Temporary CD No.|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|6520|Item Tracing Buffer|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6521|Item Tracing History Buffer|14900|CD No. Filter|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6529|Record Buffer|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6550|Whse. Item Tracking Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6550|Whse. Item Tracking Line|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6565|Item Tracking Setup|12400|CD No. Required|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6565|Item Tracking Setup|12410|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6565|Item Tracking Setup|12420|CD No. Info Required|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6565|Item Tracking Setup|12430|CD No. Mismatch|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7311|Warehouse Journal Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7311|Warehouse Journal Line|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7312|Warehouse Entry|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7319|Posted Whse. Receipt Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7341|Posted Invt. Put-away Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7343|Posted Invt. Pick Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7345|Registered Invt. Movement Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|14917|CD No. Format|All|All|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|12407|CD No. Header|All|All|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|12408|CD No. Information|All|All|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|12410|CD Tracking Setup|All|All|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|12458|Direct Transfer Header|All|All|Direct Transfer feature merge to W1.|
|12459|Direct Transfer Line|All|All|Direct Transfer feature merge to W1.|
|12450|Item Document Header|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12453|Item Document Line|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12451|Item Receipt Header|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12452|Item Receipt Line|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12454|Item Shipment Header|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12455|Item Shipment Line|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|99000853|Inventory Profile|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|

Commit message:

Deprecate RU Payroll (#2698)
* deprecate Payroll

* Update deprecated-features-w1.md

move definitions to include for standardization

dev-itpro/includes/fields-obsolete-ru.md, after:

---
author: AndreiPanko

ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 05/20/2021
ms.author: andreipa
---
<!--Currently, no fields are marked as ObsoleteState:Pending in the RU version.-->
The following fields are marked as ObsoleteState:Pending in the RU version.

|Table ID|Table Name|Field ID|Field Name|Comments|
|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
|27|Item|12400|CD Specific Tracking|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|83|Item Journal Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|83|Item Journal Line|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|32|Item Ledger Entry|12420|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|169|Job Ledger Entry|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|210|Job Journal Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|242|Source Code Setup|12450|Item Receipt|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|242|Source Code Setup|12451|Item Shipment|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|307|Inventory Buffer|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12400|Item Receipt Nos.|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12401|Posted Item Receipt Nos.|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12402|Item Shipment Nos.|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12403|Posted Item Shipment Nos.|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12404|CD Header Nos.|Will be removed in a later release.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12405|Posted Direct Transfer Nos.|Replaced by field Direct Transfer feature in W1.|
|313|Inventory Setup|12416|Check CD No. Format|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|336|Tracking Specification|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|336|Tracking Specification|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|337|Reservation Entry|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|337|Reservation Entry|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|338|Entry Summary|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|338|Entry Summary|14901|Lot/CD Exists|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|1003|Job Planning Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|5773|Registered Whse. Activity Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6502|Item Tracking Code|14910|CD Specific Tracking|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6502|Item Tracking Code|14913|CD Warehouse Tracking|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6507|Item Entry Relation|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6509|Whse. Item Entry Relation|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6515|Package No. Information|9|CD Header No.|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|6515|Package No. Information|11|Temporary CD No.|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|6520|Item Tracing Buffer|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6521|Item Tracing History Buffer|14900|CD No. Filter|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6529|Record Buffer|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6550|Whse. Item Tracking Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6550|Whse. Item Tracking Line|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6565|Item Tracking Setup|12400|CD No. Required|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6565|Item Tracking Setup|12410|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6565|Item Tracking Setup|12420|CD No. Info Required|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|6565|Item Tracking Setup|12430|CD No. Mismatch|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7311|Warehouse Journal Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7311|Warehouse Journal Line|14901|New CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7312|Warehouse Entry|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7319|Posted Whse. Receipt Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7341|Posted Invt. Put-away Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7343|Posted Invt. Pick Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|7345|Registered Invt. Movement Line|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
|14917|CD No. Format|All|All|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|12407|CD No. Header|All|All|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|12408|CD No. Information|All|All|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|12410|CD Tracking Setup|All|All|Moved to Customs Declaration Tracking for Russia extension.|
|12458|Direct Transfer Header|All|All|Direct Transfer feature merged into W1.|
|12459|Direct Transfer Line|All|All|Direct Transfer feature merged into W1.|
|12450|Item Document Header|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12453|Item Document Line|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12451|Item Receipt Header|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12452|Item Receipt Line|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12454|Item Shipment Header|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|12455|Item Shipment Line|All|All|Replaced by Inventory Documents feature.|
|17385|Absence Header|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17386|Absence Line|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17458|AE Calculation Setup|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17358|Classificator OKIN|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17364|Default Labor Contract Terms|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17419|Detailed Payroll Ledger Entry|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17454|Element Buffer|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17389|Employee Absence Entry|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17355|Employee Category|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17363|Employee Job Entry|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17381|Employee Journal Batch|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17382|Employee Journal Line|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17380|Employee Journal Template|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17413|Employee Ledger Entry|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17359|General Directory|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17366|Group Order Header|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17367|Group Order Line|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17356|HR Field Group|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17357|HR Field Group Line|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17368|HR Order Comment Line|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|17391|HRP Cue|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|12423|Job Title|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|14950|KLADR Address|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|14951|KLADR Category|All|All|Will be removed in 2021 wave 2 release|
|99000853|Inventory Profile|14900|CD No.|Replaced by field Package Tracking feature in W1.|
