- Instead of exposing UI pages as web service endpoints, use the API pages or API queries because they've been optimized for this scenario. Select the highest API version available. Don't use the beta version of the API pages. To read more about API pages, see [API Page Type](../developer/devenv-api-pagetype.md).

- If you do expose UI pages as web service endpoints as web service endpoints, then triggers need to be run for all records returned from the [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] server. As a developer, you need to make your AL code conditional on the ClientType. Specifically, avoid updating FactBoxes, avoid calculation, and avoid defaulting logic. For more information, see [System.GuiAllowed() Method](../developer/methods-auto/system/system-guiallowed-method.md).

- The choice of protocol (SOAP, OData, or APIs) for the endpoint can have a significant impact on performance. Favor OData version 4 or APIs for the best performance. It's possible to expose procedures in a codeunit as an OData end point using unbound actions. To read more about OData unbound actions, see [Creating and Interacting with an OData V4 Unbound Action](../developer/devenv-creating-and-interacting-with-odatav4-unbound-action.md).

- If you want OData endpoints that work as data readers (like for consumption in Power BI), consider using API queries and set `DataAccessIntent = ReadOnly`. For more information, see [API Query Type](../developer/devenv-api-querytype.md) and [DataAccessIntent Property](../developer/properties/devenv-dataaccessintent-property.md).