dev-itpro/includes/service-updates.md, before:

---
author: edupont04
ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.author: edupont
---
[!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] online is a service that consists of a Microsoft-maintained platform and business functionality. Many Microsoft partners provide extra business functionality, such as to address specific industry or localization needs. Both business functionality and service components are monitored continuously and updated as appropriate.  

Generally, new capabilities are made available as part of major updates. Critical fixes are rolled out as soon as possible after they passed tests and have been verified in Microsoft's protected staging environment. You can always refer to the [release plan](/dynamics365/release-plans/) for an overview of new and upcoming functionality. And keep an eye out for the minor updates at [aka.ms/bclastminorupdate](../whatsnew/whatsnew-update-17-5.md).  

> [!TIP]
> All service updates that Microsoft applies to [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] online are also shipped with the subsequent cumulative update for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)]. For example, see [Update 17.5 for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central online 2020 release wave 2](../whatsnew/whatsnew-update-17-5.md) and [Dynamics 365 Business Central On-Premises 2020 Release Wave 2 Updates](../deployment/update-versions-17.md), respectively.

Commit message:

Clarify service updates (#2626)
* separate section for service updates

dev-itpro/includes/service-updates.md, after:

---
author: edupont04
ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 04/21/2021
ms.author: edupont
---
[!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] online is a service that consists of a Microsoft-maintained platform and business functionality. Many Microsoft partners provide extra business functionality, such as to address specific industry or localization needs. Both business functionality and service components are monitored continuously and updated as appropriate.  

New capabilities roll out in release waves that consist of a major update and monthly minor updates. Most capabilities are made available in major updates, but some become available in minor updates. Critical fixes roll out as soon as possible after they pass tests and have been verified in Microsoft's protected staging environment. You can always refer to the [release plan](/dynamics365/release-plans/) for an overview of new and upcoming functionality. And keep an eye out for the minor updates at [aka.ms/bclastminorupdate](../whatsnew/whatsnew-update-17-5.md).  

> [!TIP]
> All updates that Microsoft applies to [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] online are also shipped with the subsequent cumulative update for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] on-premises. For example, see [Update 17.5 for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central online 2020 release wave 2](../whatsnew/whatsnew-update-17-5.md) and [Dynamics 365 Business Central On-Premises 2020 Release Wave 2 Updates](../deployment/update-versions-17.md), respectively.
