---
title: "Handling Errors by Using Try Functions"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 06/05/2016
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: "dynamics-nav-2018"
ms.assetid: 5bb994f4-a0ac-4723-b35d-8211c356af29
caps.latest.revision: 11
manager: edupont
---
# Handling Errors by Using Try Functions
Try functions in C/AL enable you to handle errors that occur in the application during code execution. For example, with try functions, you can provide more user-friendly error messages to the end user than those thrown by the system.  

## Behavior and Usage  
The main purpose of try functions is to catch errors/exceptions that are thrown by [!INCLUDE[navnow](includes/navnow_md.md)] or exceptions that are thrown during .NET Framework interoperability operations. Try functions catch errors similar to a conditional Codeunit.Run function call, except try function calls do not require that write transactions are committed to the database, and changes to the database that are made with a try function are not rolled back.

### <a name="DbWriteTransactions"></a>Database write transactions in try functions
Because changes made to the database by a try function are not rolled back, you should not include database write transactions within a try function. By default, the [!INCLUDE[nav_server](includes/nav_server_md.md)] configuration prevents you from doing this. If a try function contains a database write transaction, a runtime error occurs.

>[!Note]
>This behavior is different from the behavior in [!INCLUDE[navcorfu_md](includes/navcorfu_md.md)], which did not include this restriction by default. Therefore, you might encounter errors if you have application code that was written for [!INCLUDE[navcorfu_md](includes/navcorfu_md.md)] and you run the code in [!INCLUDE[nav2017](includes/nav2017.md)].

>In practice, this means that you should not include the following function calls inside a try function scope:  

>|Data Type|Function|  
>|---------------|--------------|  
>|Record and RecordRef|-   INSERT<br />-   MODIFY<br />-   MODIFYALL<br />-   RENAME<br />-   DELETE<br />-   DELETEALL<br />-   >ADDLINK<br />-   DELETELINK<br />-   DELETELINKS|  
>|Database|-   COMMIT|

>If you want to change this behavior, you can set the **DisableWriteInsideTryFunctions** setting in the CustomSettings.config file of the server instance to **false**. However, we recommend that you design your code to suit the default behavior instead.

### Handling errors with a return value
A function that is designated as a try function has a Boolean return value \(true or false\), and has the construction `OK:= MyTryFunction`. A try function cannot have a user-defined return value.

- If a try function call does not use the return value, the try function operates like an ordinary function and errors are exposed as usual.  

- If a try function call uses the return value in an `OK:=` statement or a conditional statement such as `IF-THEN`, errors are caught. The try function returns `true` if no error occurs; `false` is an error occurs. 

> [!NOTE]  
>  The return value is not accessible within the try function itself.  

### Getting details about errors
You can use the [GETLASTERRORTEXT Function](GETLASTERRORTEXT-Function.md) to obtain errors that are generated by [!INCLUDE[navnow](includes/navnow_md.md)]. To get details of exceptions that are generated by .NET Framework objects, you can use the [GETLASTERROROBJECT Function](GETLASTERROROBJECT-Function.md) to inspect the Expection.InnerException property.

> [!TIP]  
>  The [!INCLUDE[demolong](includes/demolong_md.md)] includes codeunit 1291 **DotNet Exception Handler** that includes several global functions for handling exceptions similar to a try-catch capability in C\#. You can use this codeunit together with try functions to handle exceptions and maximize the reuse of code.     

## Creating a Try Function  
To create a try function, add a function in C/AL code of an object \(such as a codeunit\) as usual, and then set the [TryFunction Property](TryFunction-Property.md) property to **Yes**. A try function has the following restrictions:  

In test and upgrade codeunits, you can only use a try function on a normal function type, as defined by the [FunctionType Property \(Test Codeunits\)](FunctionType-Property--Test-Codeunits-.md) or [FunctionType Property \(Upgrade Codeunits\)](FunctionType-Property--Upgrade-Codeunits-.md).  

## Example 1 
The following simple example illustrates how the try function works. First, create a codeunit that has a local function `MyTryFunction`. Add the following code on the `OnRun` trigger and `MyTryFunction` function.

**OnRun()**
```
MyTryFunction;
MESSAGE('Everthing went well.');
```

**LOCAL MyTryFunction()**
```
ERROR('An error occurred during the operation.');
```

When you run this codeunit, the execution of the `OnRun` trigger, the calling function, stops and the error message `An error occurred during the operation.` is thrown in the client.


Now, set the **TryFunction** property of the  `MyTryFunction` function to **Yes**. Then, add code to the `OnRun` trigger to handle the return value of the try function: 

**OnRun()**
```
IF MyTryFunction THEN
  MESSAGE('Everying went well.')
ELSE
  MESSAGE('Something went wrong.');
```

**LOCAL [TryFunction] MyTryFunction()**
```
ERROR('An error occurred during the operation.');
```

When you run the codeunit, instead of stopping the execution of the `OnRun`trigger when the error occurs, the error is caught and the message `Something went wrong.` is returned.

## Example 2 
The following example illustrates how to use a try function with .NET interoperabilty. The example uses the [System.Decimal.Divide method](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.decimal.divide(v=vs.110).aspx) to divide two decimals. 

First, create a codeunit that has a local function `MyTryFunction`, and add the following text constants and variables:

|Text constant name|ConstValue|
|----|----------|
|Text000|	%1 divided by %2 equals %3.|
|Text001|	You cannot divide by %1.|


|Variable name|DataType|Subtype|
|----|----------|----|----------|
|divide|DotNet|System.Decimal.'mscorlib, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=b77a5c561934e089'|
|d1|	Decimal||
|d2|	Decimal| |
|result|Decimal||

Then, add the following code on the `OnRun` trigger and `MyTryFunction` function.

**OnRun()**
```
IF MyTryFunction THEN
  MESSAGE(Text000, d1, d2, result)
ELSE
  MESSAGE(Text001, d2);
```

**LOCAL MyTryFunction()**
```
d1 := 3;
d2 := 0;
result := divide.Divide(d1,d2);
```

When you run this codeunit, an error occurs because you are not allowed to divide by `0`. The message `You cannot divide by 0.` is displayed in the client. 



<!-- 
The following example illustrates the use of a try function together with codeunit 1291 **DotNet Exception Handler** to handle .NET Framework Interoperability exceptions. The code is in text file format and has been simplified for illustration. The `CallTryPostingDotNet` function runs the try function `TryPostSomething` in a conditional statement to catch .NET Framework Interoperability exceptions. Errors other than `IndexOutOfRangeException` type are re-thrown.  

```  
[TryFunction]  
PROCEDURE TryPostingSomething@1();  
BEGIN  
  CODEUNIT.RUN(CODEUNIT::"Purch.-Post");  
END;  

PROCEDURE CallTryPostingDotNet @2();  
VAR  
  MyPostingCodeunit@1 : Codeunit 90;  
  MyDotNetExceptionHandler@2 : Codeunit 1291;  
  IndexOutOfRangeException@3 : DotNet 'mscorlib, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=b77a5c561934e089'.System.IndexOutOfRangeException'  
BEGIN  
  IF TryPostingSomething THEN  
    MESSAGE('Posting succeeded.')  
  ELSE BEGIN  
    MyDotNetExceptionHandler.Collect;  
    IF MyDotNetExceptionHandler.TryCastToType(IndexOutOfRangeException) THEN  
      MESSAGE('The index used to find the value was not valid.')  
    ELSE  
      MyDotNetExceptionHandler.Rethrow;  
  END;  
END;  
```  
-->


## See Also  
 [C/AL Function Statements](C-AL-Function-Statements.md)

