dev-itpro/deployment/customer-signup.md, before:

---
title: Trials and Sign-ups for Business Central online
description: Learn how to let prospects try out a Business Central trial, and how you can configure and extend their trial experience. 
author: edupont04

ms.custom: na
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
ms.author: edupont
ms.date: 10/01/2020
---

# Trials and Sign-ups for Business Central Online

You can invite customers and prospects to sign up for any number of Dynamics 365 apps, including [!include[prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] online and partner solutions based on [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], using the same account ID. These apps will run side-by-side with each other, will use different URLs, and will be displayed as separate tiles on the *home.dynamics.com* portal.  

This means that you can show prospects a preview of what you are offering based on trials of [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] and other Dynamics 365 apps.  

## Prospects and trials

Prospects can contact you if they have signed up for the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] [free trial](/dynamics365/business-central/across-preview). This means that you can become their CSP partner. For more information, see [Connect with customers](../administration/get-started-online.md#connect-with-customers).  

Alternatively, you can create a more tailored trial environment based on the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] content pack on the [cdx.transform.microsoft.com](https://cdx.transform.microsoft.com/) site. For more information, see [Preparing Demonstration Environments of [!INCLUDE[prod_long](../developer/includes/prod_long.md)]](../administration/demo-environment.md).  

Some types of trials can be extended beyond 30 days. The following table outlines the types of trials that you can offer prospects:

|Scenario |Trial period  |Can be extended  | Can be used for production|
|---------|--------------|-----------------|---------------------------|
|Prospect signs up for the [free trial](/dynamics365/business-central/across-preview) with their work or school email account, and then switches to My Company for a 30 day trial.</br></br>Their trial is based on the **Dynamics 365 Business Central for IWs** license.|30 days         | Yes </br></br>Once through the in-product notification + once by the partner |  Yes       |
|Partner assigns the **Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial** license to an existing client in Partner Center so that they can try out the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] full experience in My Company|30 days         | No </br></br>The partner can assign a new **Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial** license for a second 30 days trial |  Yes       |
|Partner creates a test customer and assigns the **Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial** license to that in Partner Center. Then they invite a client or prospect to that trial. |30 days         | No </br></br>The partner can assign a new **Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial** license for a second 30 days trial  |  Yes       |

At any point during their trial experience, when they are ready, you can convert their trial to a paid subscription using the Partner Center dashboard. For more information, see [Converting trials to paid subscriptions](/partner-center/offer-your-customers-trials-of-microsoft-products#converting-trials-to-paid-subscriptions).  

### <a name="premiumtrial"></a>The Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial

[!INCLUDE [admin-premiumtrial](../developer/includes/admin-premiumtrial.md)]

## <a name="extendtrial"></a>Extending trials

[!INCLUDE [admin-extendtrials](../developer/includes/admin-extendtrials.md)]

## Embed Apps and signing customers up

Specifically for partners that are in the [!INCLUDE[embedapp](../developer/includes/embedapp.md)] program, signing up customers works differently. For more information, see [Onboarding customers and creating environments](embed-app-lifecycle-services.md#onboarding-customers-and-creating-environments).

## See Also

[Get Started as a Reseller of Business Central Online](../administration/get-started-online.md)  
[[!INCLUDE[embedapp](../developer/includes/embedapp.md)] Overview](embed-app-overview.md)

Commit message:

onboarding (#2546)
* integrate onboarding and ua

dev-itpro/deployment/customer-signup.md, after:

---
title: Trials and Sign-ups for Business Central online
description: Learn how to let prospects try out a Business Central trial, and how you can configure and extend their trial experience. 
author: edupont04

ms.custom: na
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
ms.author: edupont
ms.date: 10/01/2020
---

# Trials and Sign-ups for Business Central Online

You can invite customers and prospects to sign up for any number of Dynamics 365 apps, including [!include[prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] online and partner solutions based on [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], using the same account ID. These apps will run side-by-side with each other, will use different URLs, and will be displayed as separate tiles on the *home.dynamics.com* portal.  

This means that you can show prospects a preview of what you are offering based on trials of [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] and other Dynamics 365 apps.  

[!INCLUDE [2021_releasewave1](../includes/2021_releasewave1.md)]: Adjust the onboarding checklist to fit your solution. For more information, see [Onboarding experiences in Business Central](../administration/onboarding-experiences.md).

## Prospects and trials

Prospects can contact you if they have signed up for the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] [free trial](/dynamics365/business-central/across-preview). This means that you can become their CSP partner. For more information, see [Connect with customers](../administration/get-started-online.md#connect-with-customers).  

Alternatively, you can create a more tailored trial environment based on the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] content pack on the [cdx.transform.microsoft.com](https://cdx.transform.microsoft.com/) site. For more information, see [Preparing Demonstration Environments of [!INCLUDE[prod_long](../developer/includes/prod_long.md)]](../administration/demo-environment.md).  

Some types of trials can be extended beyond 30 days. The following table outlines the types of trials that you can offer prospects:

|Scenario |Trial period  |Can be extended  | Can be used for production|
|---------|--------------|-----------------|---------------------------|
|Prospect signs up for the [free trial](/dynamics365/business-central/across-preview) with their work or school email account, and then switches to My Company for a 30 day trial.</br></br>Their trial is based on the **Dynamics 365 Business Central for IWs** license.|30 days         | Yes </br></br>Once through the in-product notification + once by the partner |  Yes       |
|Partner assigns the **Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial** license to an existing client in Partner Center so that they can try out the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] full experience in My Company|30 days         | No </br></br>The partner can assign a new **Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial** license for a second 30 days trial |  Yes       |
|Partner creates a test customer and assigns the **Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial** license to that in Partner Center. Then they invite a client or prospect to that trial. |30 days         | No </br></br>The partner can assign a new **Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial** license for a second 30 days trial  |  Yes       |

At any point during their trial experience, when they are ready, you can convert their trial to a paid subscription using the Partner Center dashboard. For more information, see [Converting trials to paid subscriptions](/partner-center/offer-your-customers-trials-of-microsoft-products#converting-trials-to-paid-subscriptions).  

### <a name="premiumtrial"></a>The Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial

[!INCLUDE [admin-premiumtrial](../developer/includes/admin-premiumtrial.md)]

## <a name="extendtrial"></a>Extending trials

[!INCLUDE [admin-extendtrials](../developer/includes/admin-extendtrials.md)]

## Embed Apps and signing customers up

Specifically for partners that are in the [!INCLUDE[embedapp](../developer/includes/embedapp.md)] program, signing up customers works differently. For more information, see [Onboarding customers and creating environments](embed-app-lifecycle-services.md#onboarding-customers-and-creating-environments).

## See Also

[Get Started as a Reseller of Business Central Online](../administration/get-started-online.md)  
[[!INCLUDE[embedapp](../developer/includes/embedapp.md)] Overview](embed-app-overview.md)
