dev-itpro/developer/methods-auto/recordref/recordref-addloadfields-method.md, before:

---
title: "RecordRef.AddLoadFields Method"
ms.author: solsen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 11/23/2020
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
---
[//]: # (START>DO_NOT_EDIT)
[//]: # (IMPORTANT:Do not edit any of the content between here and the END>DO_NOT_EDIT.)
[//]: # (Any modifications should be made in the .xml files in the ModernDev repo.)
# RecordRef.AddLoadFields Method
> **Version**: _Available from runtime version 6.0._

Specifies additional fields to be initially loaded when the record is retrieved from its data source. Subsequent calls to AddLoadFields will not overwrite fields already selected for the initial load.


## Syntax
```
[Ok := ]  RecordRef.AddLoadFields([Fields: Integer,...])
```
## Parameters
*RecordRef*
&emsp;Type: [RecordRef](recordref-data-type.md)
An instance of the [RecordRef](recordref-data-type.md) data type.

*Fields*  
&emsp;Type: [Integer](../integer/integer-data-type.md)  
The FieldNo's of the fields to be loaded.  


## Return Value
*Ok*
&emsp;Type: [Boolean](../boolean/boolean-data-type.md)
**true** if all fields are selected for subsequent loads; otherwise, **false**. If you omit this optional return value and the operation does not execute successfully, a runtime error will occur.  


[//]: # (IMPORTANT: END>DO_NOT_EDIT)

## Remarks

This method is part of the partial records capability for improving performance. For more information, see [Using Partial Records](../../devenv-partial-records.md).

## Example

This code example uses the AddLoadFields method to make sure that if a record is a **Currency**, then the **Currency Factor** field is loaded. This code would have to be called before a database operation is executed on the RecordRef.

```al
procedure AlwaysNeededFields(VAR MyRecordRef: RecordRef)
var
        Currency: Record Currency;
begin
if (MyecordRef.Number = Database::Currency) then
// We always want the Currency."Currency Factor"
MyRecordRef.AddLoadFields(Currency.FieldNo(Currency."Currency Factor"));
end;
```

## See Also
[Using Partial Records](../../devenv-partial-records.md)  
[RecordRef Data Type](recordref-data-type.md)  
[Getting Started with AL](../../devenv-get-started.md)  
[Developing Extensions](../../devenv-dev-overview.md)

Commit message:

Add remark about adding system fields to Partial Records API's

dev-itpro/developer/methods-auto/recordref/recordref-addloadfields-method.md, after:

---
title: "RecordRef.AddLoadFields Method"
ms.author: solsen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 11/23/2020
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
---
[//]: # (START>DO_NOT_EDIT)
[//]: # (IMPORTANT:Do not edit any of the content between here and the END>DO_NOT_EDIT.)
[//]: # (Any modifications should be made in the .xml files in the ModernDev repo.)
# RecordRef.AddLoadFields Method
> **Version**: _Available from runtime version 6.0._

Specifies additional fields to be initially loaded when the record is retrieved from its data source. Subsequent calls to AddLoadFields will not overwrite fields already selected for the initial load.


## Syntax
```
[Ok := ]  RecordRef.AddLoadFields([Fields: Integer,...])
```
## Parameters
*RecordRef*
&emsp;Type: [RecordRef](recordref-data-type.md)
An instance of the [RecordRef](recordref-data-type.md) data type.

*Fields*  
&emsp;Type: [Integer](../integer/integer-data-type.md)  
The FieldNo's of the fields to be loaded.  


## Return Value
*Ok*
&emsp;Type: [Boolean](../boolean/boolean-data-type.md)
**true** if all fields are selected for subsequent loads; otherwise, **false**. If you omit this optional return value and the operation does not execute successfully, a runtime error will occur.  


[//]: # (IMPORTANT: END>DO_NOT_EDIT)

## Remarks

Calling SetLoadFields on a record without passing any fields will reset the fields selected to load to the default, where all readable normal fields are selected for load.

This method is part of the partial records capability for improving performance. For more information, see [Using Partial Records](../../devenv-partial-records.md).

## Example

This code example uses the AddLoadFields method to make sure that if a record is a **Currency**, then the **Currency Factor** field is loaded. This code would have to be called before a database operation is executed on the RecordRef.

```al
procedure AlwaysNeededFields(VAR MyRecordRef: RecordRef)
var
        Currency: Record Currency;
begin
if (MyecordRef.Number = Database::Currency) then
// We always want the Currency."Currency Factor"
MyRecordRef.AddLoadFields(Currency.FieldNo(Currency."Currency Factor"));
end;
```

## See Also
[Using Partial Records](../../devenv-partial-records.md)  
[RecordRef Data Type](recordref-data-type.md)  
[Getting Started with AL](../../devenv-get-started.md)  
[Developing Extensions](../../devenv-dev-overview.md)
