dev-itpro/administration/onboarding-experiences.md, before:

﻿---
title: Onboarding experiences
description: As a partner, you can get your customers up to speed in a hurry with the right onboarding story. Learn about checklists and teaching tips.
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
author: sorenfriisalexandersen
ms.author: soalex
manager: edupont
---

# Onboarding experiences in Business Central

Setting up [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)] for a customer usually involves manual setup from the partners' side. Often this setup time is spent on basic settings that do not provide additional value to the specific customer but are more generic and address the customer's industry or type of business. This is costly for the customer and can be a bottleneck for you as a partner.

Microsoft provides tools you can use to help speed up this process and enable the customer to more easily learn how to use the product and get to productive usage faster. This will save costs on the customer side and free up your consultants' time.

The onboarding framework in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)] enables any partner to deliver onboarding experiences in a uniform manner. For customers this means that the methodology of setting up the system does not differ much from partner to partner.

## Onboarding elements at your disposal

In the following sections you find descriptions of components you can use when authoring onboarding experiences for your customers along with guidance to where and how to use them.

- The checklist

  For more information, see [Get Users Started with the Checklist](onboarding-checklist.md).  
- Banner

  For more information, see [Onboard New Users with the Welcome Banner](onboarding-welcome-banner.md).  
- Teaching tips and tours

  For information, see [Teaching tips and in-app tours for onboarding users](onboarding-teaching-tips-tours.md).  

## See also

[Get Users Started with the Checklist](onboarding-checklist.md)  
[Onboard New Users with the Welcome Banner](onboarding-welcome-banner.md)  
[Teaching tips and in-app tours for onboarding users](onboarding-teaching-tips-tours.md)  
[User Assistance Model](../user-assistance.md)  
[Extend, Customize, and Collaborate on the Help](../help/contributor-guide.md)

Commit message:

fixes + custom help (#2575)
* Update deprecated-features-w1.md

* Update known-issues.md

* custom help

dev-itpro/administration/onboarding-experiences.md, after:

﻿---
title: Onboarding experiences
description: As a partner, you can get your customers up to speed in a hurry with the right onboarding story. Learn about checklists and teaching tips in the onboarding framework.
author: sorenfriisalexandersen
ms.custom: na
ms.reviewer: edupont
ms.topic: article
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.author: soalex
---

# Onboarding experiences in Business Central

Setting up [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)] for a customer usually involves manual setup from the partners' side. Often this setup time is spent on basic settings that do not provide additional value to the specific customer but are more generic and address the customer's industry or type of business. This is costly for the customer and can be a bottleneck for you as a partner.

Microsoft provides tools you can use to help speed up this process and enable the customer to more easily learn how to use the product and get to productive usage faster. This will save costs on the customer side and free up your consultants' time.

The onboarding framework in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)] enables any partner to deliver onboarding experiences in a uniform manner. For customers this means that the methodology of setting up the system does not differ much from partner to partner.

## Onboarding elements at your disposal

In the following sections you find descriptions of components you can use when authoring onboarding experiences for your customers along with guidance to where and how to use them.

- Banner

  For more information, see [Onboard New Users with the Welcome Banner](onboarding-welcome-banner.md).  
- The checklist

  For more information, see [Get Users Started with the Checklist](onboarding-checklist.md).  
- Teaching tips and tours

  For information, see [Teaching tips and in-app tours for onboarding users](onboarding-teaching-tips-tours.md).  

## See also

[Get Users Started with the Checklist](onboarding-checklist.md)  
[Onboard New Users with the Welcome Banner](onboarding-welcome-banner.md)  
[Teaching tips and in-app tours for onboarding users](onboarding-teaching-tips-tours.md)  
[User Assistance Model](../user-assistance.md)  
[Extend, Customize, and Collaborate on the Help](../help/contributor-guide.md)
