dev-itpro/administration/tenant-administration.md, before:

---
title: Administration of Business Central Online | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn about how you as the internal administrator or as a reselling partner can manage online tenants of Dynamics 365 Business Central.  
author: edupont04

ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.workload: na
ms.reviewer: na
ms.search.keywords: administration, tenant, admin, environment
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.author: edupont
---

# Administration of Business Central Online

As an administrator, you can manage [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] online tenants both as an internal administrator, who is typically an employee of the company that bought the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] subscription, and as an administrator from the reselling partner company. Some of the tools are the same, and some tools are available to partners only. Here you can learn which tools are available to you as an administrator.  

## Administration as an internal administrator

Internal administrators are the system administrators, IT professionals, or superusers of the customer's company, who are assigned the **Global admin** role in the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see [About admin roles](/microsoft-365/admin/add-users/about-admin-roles) in the Microsoft 365 admin content.  

### Administration in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)]

As the internal administrator, you can add users and grant permissions. For more information, see [Create Users According to Licenses](/dynamics365/business-central/ui-how-users-permissions) and [Assign Permissions to Users and Groups](/dynamics365/business-central/ui-define-granular-permissions) in the business functionality content for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)].

As an internal administrator you have **read-only** access to all areas of [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)]. You will have this access even if your organization decides not to continue with [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] and cancels the subscription. That way, you, as the internal administrator, can export relevant data, while no one else in your organization has a license to sign in and use [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)].

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must have a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] license in order to set up integration to other products, or perform any other tasks in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], except the two mentioned above. For information about licensing, see [Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central Licencing Guide](https://aka.ms/BusinessCentralLicensing).

For other tasks, you can access the [!INCLUDE [prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)], where you can manage upgrade schedules and other tasks. For more information, see [The Business Central Administration Center](tenant-admin-center.md).  

You can also use telemetry to track usage and monitor user sessions, for example. For more information, see [Monitoring and Analyzing Telemetry](telemetry-overview.md) and [Managing Sessions](tenant-admin-center-manage-sessions.md).  

### Administration of a trial

If your organization has signed up for a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] trial, you can extend the free trial, and you can start the process of finding a reselling partner to help you get a subscription. For more information, see [Dynamics 365 Business Central Trials and Subscriptions](/dynamics365/business-central/across-preview).  

### Administration in the Microsoft 365 admin center

The **Global admin** role makes you an administrator of your organization's Microsoft 365 tenant. This means that you can manage the subscription, add or remove users, and assign or remove licenses in the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see [Microsoft 365 Admin help center](/office365/admin/admin-home).  

### Collaboration with reselling partners

When your organization subscribes to [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], you have a relationship with [an authorized partner of Microsoft](/microsoft-365/admin/misc/add-partner). The partner company assists with licensing, configuration, and other tasks. They can also help you get [telemetry](telemetry-overview.md) about your [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] environment.  

The partner will have access to your tenant as a *delegated administrator*. You can configure their access to your data. For more information, see [Managing delegated permissions as an internal administrator](delegated-admin.md#managing-delegated-permissions-as-an-internal-administrator).

If your organization decides to switch to another partner, you must take the following steps:

1. Ask your current partner to [remove the reseller relationship with you](/microsoft-365/admin/misc/add-partner#remove-a-reseller-relationship) in the Partner Center
2. Remove their delegated administration privileges

    1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, under **Settings**, choose **Partner relationships**, and then select the partner of interest
    2. In the details pane, choose **Remove delegated admin**
    3. In the confirmation pane, choose **Remove**

    You must also [disable their user accounts](/dynamics365/business-central/ui-how-users-permissions#to-remove-a-users-access-to-the-system) from your [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)].
3. Remove any settings in the [!INCLUDE [prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)] if the partner did not already clear their settings.  

    For more information, see [Internal administrators](tenant-admin-center.md#internal-administrators).

4. [Add your new partner to your subscription](/microsoft-365/admin/misc/add-partner#add-a-partner-to-an-existing-subscription), and work with them to get them set up  

### Unsubscribing from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)]

If the organization decides not to continue with [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], you can then cancel the subscription.  

In the Microsoft 365 admin portal, you can remove licenses from users. As the administrator, you can remove a trial subscription from your company's account. But to cancel a paid subscription, you must contact your reselling partner, and they can [cancel the relevant subscription](/partner-center/create-a-new-subscription?toc=/dynamics365/business-central/dev-itpro/administration&bc=../breadcrumb/toc.yml) in the Partner Center.  

For more information, see [Unsubscribe or Remove Business Central](/dynamics365/business-central/admin-cancel) in the business functionality content for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)].  

## Administration as a partner

As a [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] reselling partner, you are the administrator of the [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] tenants of your customers. You have access to the administration tools of their Microsoft 365 account and their [!INCLUDE [prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)] where you can specify update windows. You can also log into their [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] as a *delegated administrator* if you want to reproduce errors.  

[!INCLUDE [admin-partner-mpn](../developer/includes/admin-partner-mpn.md)]
[!INCLUDE [csp-get-started](../developer/includes/csp-get-started.md)]
[!INCLUDE [csp-admin-users](../developer/includes/csp-admin-users.md)]

### Connect with customers

[!INCLUDE [csp-connect-customer](../developer/includes/csp-connect-customer.md)]

### Acting as a delegated administrator

As a reselling partner, you have delegated administration access to their [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] and other services. For more information, see [Delegated Administrator Access to Business Central Online](delegated-admin.md).  

### Manage technical support

As a reselling partner, you must be the first line of support for your [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] customers. You must set up your support contact information, and help the internal administrators troubleshoot any issues that users find. For more information, see [Managing Technical Support](manage-technical-support.md).  

## Extending trials

[!INCLUDE [admin-extendtrials](../developer/includes/admin-extendtrials.md)]

### <a name="premiumtrial"></a>The Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial

[!INCLUDE [admin-premiumtrial](../developer/includes/admin-premiumtrial.md)]

## Data and access when a trial or subscription ends

Trials can expire, and so can a paid subscription, such as if the customer does not renew the subscription or stops payments, or if the customer cancels the subscription.  

[!INCLUDE [admin-extendtrials-periods](../developer/includes/admin-extendtrials-periods.md)]

## See Also

[The Business Central Administration Center](tenant-admin-center.md)  
[The Business Central Administration Center API](administration-center-api.md)  
[Submitting support requests on behalf of your customer](manage-technical-support.md#submitsupportrequest)  
[Resources for Help and Support for Dynamics 365 Business Central](../help-and-support.md)  
[How does Microsoft handle database sizes?](../faq.yml#how-does-microsoft-handle-database-sizes)  
[Version numbers in Business Central](version-numbers.md)  
[Get Started as a Reseller of Business Central Online](get-started-online.md)  
[Deliver consulting services as a VAR: aka.ms/BusinessCentralConsultingServices](https://aka.ms/BusinessCentralConsultingServices)  
[Monitoring and Analyzing Telemetry](telemetry-overview.md)

Commit message:

Trials expire (#2721)
* trial expiry

collab with Steffen Balslev

dev-itpro/administration/tenant-administration.md, after:

---
title: Administration of Business Central Online
description: Learn about how you as the internal administrator or as a reselling partner can manage online tenants of Dynamics 365 Business Central.  
author: edupont04

ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.workload: na
ms.reviewer: na
ms.search.keywords: administration, tenant, admin, environment
ms.date: 05/31/2021
ms.author: edupont
---

# Administration of Business Central Online

As an administrator, you can manage [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] online tenants both as an internal administrator, who is typically an employee of the company that bought the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] subscription, and as an administrator from the reselling partner company. Some of the tools are the same, and some tools are available to partners only. Here you can learn which tools are available to you as an administrator.  

## Administration as an internal administrator

Internal administrators are the system administrators, IT professionals, or superusers of the customer's company, who are assigned the **Global admin** role in the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see [About admin roles](/microsoft-365/admin/add-users/about-admin-roles) in the Microsoft 365 admin content.  

### Administration in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)]

As the internal administrator, you can add users and grant permissions. For more information, see [Create Users According to Licenses](/dynamics365/business-central/ui-how-users-permissions) and [Assign Permissions to Users and Groups](/dynamics365/business-central/ui-define-granular-permissions) in the business functionality content for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)].

As an internal administrator you have **read-only** access to all areas of [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)]. You will have this access even if your organization decides not to continue with [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] and cancels the subscription. That way, you, as the internal administrator, can export relevant data, while no one else in your organization has a license to sign in and use [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)].

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must have a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] license in order to set up integration to other products, or perform any other tasks in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], except the two mentioned above. For information about licensing, see [Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central Licencing Guide](https://aka.ms/BusinessCentralLicensing).

For other tasks, you can access the [!INCLUDE [prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)], where you can manage upgrade schedules and other tasks. For more information, see [The Business Central Administration Center](tenant-admin-center.md).  

You can also use telemetry to track usage and monitor user sessions, for example. For more information, see [Monitoring and Analyzing Telemetry](telemetry-overview.md) and [Managing Sessions](tenant-admin-center-manage-sessions.md).  

### Administration of a trial

If your organization has signed up for a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] trial, you can extend the free trial, and you can start the process of finding a reselling partner to help you get a subscription. For more information, see [Dynamics 365 Business Central Trials and Subscriptions](/dynamics365/business-central/across-preview).  

### Administration in the Microsoft 365 admin center

The **Global admin** role makes you an administrator of your organization's Microsoft 365 tenant. This means that you can manage the subscription, add or remove users, and assign or remove licenses in the Microsoft 365 admin center. For more information, see [Microsoft 365 Admin help center](/office365/admin/admin-home).  

### Collaboration with reselling partners

When your organization subscribes to [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], you have a relationship with [an authorized partner of Microsoft](/microsoft-365/admin/misc/add-partner). The partner company assists with licensing, configuration, and other tasks. They can also help you get [telemetry](telemetry-overview.md) about your [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] environment.  

The partner will have access to your tenant as a *delegated administrator*. You can configure their access to your data. For more information, see [Managing delegated permissions as an internal administrator](delegated-admin.md#managing-delegated-permissions-as-an-internal-administrator).

If your organization decides to switch to another partner, you must take the following steps:

1. Ask your current partner to [remove the reseller relationship with you](/microsoft-365/admin/misc/add-partner#remove-a-reseller-relationship) in the Partner Center
2. Remove their delegated administration privileges

    1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, under **Settings**, choose **Partner relationships**, and then select the partner of interest
    2. In the details pane, choose **Remove delegated admin**
    3. In the confirmation pane, choose **Remove**

    You must also [disable their user accounts](/dynamics365/business-central/ui-how-users-permissions#to-remove-a-users-access-to-the-system) from your [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)].
3. Remove any settings in the [!INCLUDE [prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)] if the partner did not already clear their settings.  

    For more information, see [Internal administrators](tenant-admin-center.md#internal-administrators).

4. [Add your new partner to your subscription](/microsoft-365/admin/misc/add-partner#add-a-partner-to-an-existing-subscription), and work with them to get them set up  

### Unsubscribing from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)]

If the organization decides not to continue with [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], you can then cancel the subscription.  

In the Microsoft 365 admin portal, you can remove licenses from users. As the administrator, you can remove a trial subscription from your company's account. But to cancel a paid subscription, you must contact your reselling partner, and they can [cancel the relevant subscription](/partner-center/create-a-new-subscription?toc=/dynamics365/business-central/dev-itpro/administration&bc=../breadcrumb/toc.yml) in the Partner Center.  

For more information, see [Unsubscribe or Remove Business Central](/dynamics365/business-central/admin-cancel) in the business functionality content for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)].  

## Administration as a partner

As a [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] reselling partner, you are the administrator of the [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] tenants of your customers. You have access to the administration tools of their Microsoft 365 account and their [!INCLUDE [prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)] where you can specify update windows. You can also log into their [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] as a *delegated administrator* if you want to reproduce errors.  

[!INCLUDE [admin-partner-mpn](../developer/includes/admin-partner-mpn.md)]
[!INCLUDE [csp-get-started](../developer/includes/csp-get-started.md)]
[!INCLUDE [csp-admin-users](../developer/includes/csp-admin-users.md)]

### Connect with customers

[!INCLUDE [csp-connect-customer](../developer/includes/csp-connect-customer.md)]

### Acting as a delegated administrator

As a reselling partner, you have delegated administration access to their [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] and other services. For more information, see [Delegated Administrator Access to Business Central Online](delegated-admin.md).  

### Manage technical support

As a reselling partner, you must be the first line of support for your [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)] customers. You must set up your support contact information, and help the internal administrators troubleshoot any issues that users find. For more information, see [Managing Technical Support](manage-technical-support.md).  

## Extending trials

[!INCLUDE [admin-extendtrials](../developer/includes/admin-extendtrials.md)]

### <a name="premiumtrial"></a>The Dynamics 365 Business Central Premium Trial

[!INCLUDE [admin-premiumtrial](../developer/includes/admin-premiumtrial.md)]

## <a name="expire"></a>Data and access when a trial or subscription ends

Trials can expire, and so can a paid subscription, such as if the customer does not renew the subscription, stops payments, or if the customer cancels the subscription.  

[!INCLUDE [admin-extendtrials-periods](../developer/includes/admin-extendtrials-periods.md)]

### When a free trial expires

Most trials are based on people signing up at [https://dynamics.microsoft.com/business-central/](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/business-central/). These viral trials do not expire, provided that the prospect does not switch to the 30 day trial, and provided that users access [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)] frequently.  

[!INCLUDE [admin-viral-trial-expiry](../developer/includes/admin-viral-trial-expiry.md)]

## See Also

[The Business Central Administration Center](tenant-admin-center.md)  
[The Business Central Administration Center API](administration-center-api.md)  
[Submitting support requests on behalf of your customer](manage-technical-support.md#submitsupportrequest)  
[Resources for Help and Support for Dynamics 365 Business Central](../help-and-support.md)  
[How does Microsoft handle database sizes?](../faq.yml#how-does-microsoft-handle-database-sizes)  
[Version numbers in Business Central](version-numbers.md)  
[Get Started as a Reseller of Business Central Online](get-started-online.md)  
[Deliver consulting services as a VAR: aka.ms/BusinessCentralConsultingServices](https://aka.ms/BusinessCentralConsultingServices)  
[Monitoring and Analyzing Telemetry](telemetry-overview.md)
