---
title: Environment Telemetry | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how the Business Central admin center provides telemetry for each environment.  
author: edupont04

ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: article
ms.devlang: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
ms.search.keywords: administration, tenant, admin, environment, sandbox, telemetry
ms.date: 11/15/2019
ms.author: edupont
---

# Environment Telemetry

## Telemetry in the [!INCLUDE[prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)]
The [!INCLUDE[prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)] provides telemetry for the tenant environments to enable troubleshooting and support for the tenant. The Telemetry tab provides telemetry of top-level AL events, and any errors resulting from calls through the telemetry stack.

To filter the telemetry for an environment:

1. Select a base point-in-time for the timestamp of the telemetry messages.
2. Enter a number of minutes before or after the base point-in-time to set a range of time for the timestamp. A negative number indicates a number of minutes before the base point-in-time, and a positive number indicates a number of minutes following the base point-in-time. For example, a value of *-15* will filter the telemetry messages to a timestamp range of up to 15 minutes before the base point-in-time.
3. Choose the message type.
4. Choose the environment.
5. Select **Filter**.

## Sending telemetry to Microsoft Azure Application Insights (Preview)

You can set up your environments to send telemetry to Application Insights. Application Insights is a service hosted within Azure that gathers telemetry data for analysis and presentation. For more information, see [What is Application Insights?](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview).

Currently, the only telemetry that [!INCLUDE[prodshort](../developer/includes/prodshort.md)] emits to Application Insights pertains to long running SQL queries. We expect to add more telemetry in future updates.

Identifying long running SQL queries on a tenant database can be a good starting point when doing performance analysis, and Application Insights provides tools that can help you in this task.

### Enable sending telemetry to Application Insights

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> This process requires a restart to the environment, which is triggered automatically after step 5. Plan to do this during non-working hours to avoid disruptions.

1. If you don't already have one, get a subscription to [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com).
2. Create an Application Insights resource in Azure.

    The Application Insights resource will be assigned an instrumentation key. Copy this key because you will need it to enable Application Insights in the [!INCLUDE[prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)].  
    
    The Application Insights instrumentation key can be in any Azure tenant that your organization has access to. For example, a delegated administrator from the reselling partner is the one analyzing the telemetry, and they might not have access to the customer's Azure instance. This scenario enables the partner to send the telemetry to their own Application Insights instance.

    For more information, see [Create an Application Insights resource](/azure/azure-monitor/app/create-new-resource).

3. In the [!INCLUDE[prodadmincenter](../developer/includes/prodadmincenter.md)], on the **Environments** tab, select **Application Insights Key**.
4. On the **Application Insights Key** page, enter the instrumentation key in the **Instrumentation Key** field.
5. Select **Save**.

### Analyze long running SQL queries

Any SQL query that takes longer than 1000 milliseconds to execute will be sent to your Application Insights resource. To get a quick overview, you can go the [Application Insights Overview dashboard](/azure/azure-monitor/app/overview-dashboard).

For details about the long running SQL query telemetry information and dimensions sent from [!INCLUDE[prodshort](../developer/includes/prodshort.md)], see [Dimensions for long running SQL queries](monitor-long-running-sql-queries-event-log.md#LRSQLQuery).

There are multiple reasons that can affect the time it takes SQL queries to run. For example, the database could be waiting for a lock to be released or the database is executing an operation that performs badly because of missing indexes. In some cases, you can see what caused the delay by looking at the SQL statement that was generated by the code. This information can be found in the **CustomDimension** data, specifically the **AL Stack Trace** column.


## See also

[Working with Administration Tools](administration.md)  
[The Business Central Administration Center](tenant-admin-center.md)  
[Managing Environments](tenant-admin-center-environments.md)  
[Managing Tenant Notifications](tenant-admin-center-notifications.md)  
[Introduction to automation APIs](itpro-introduction-to-automation-apis.md)  
