dev-itpro/developer/includes/admin_m365demo.md, before:

---
author: dmc-dk
ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: include
ms.reviewer: edupont
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.author: dmitrych
---
1. Log in to [aka.ms/cdx](https://aka.ms/cdx) using your partner account.
2. Choose the **My Environments** tab, and then, under **My tenants**, choose the **Create Tenant** button.
3. As the type, choose **Quick Tenant**.
4. As the period, choose either a quarter or a full year.

    Your account in CDX has access to a limited quota of tenants that can last three months or a full year. For more information, see the [CDX FAQ](https://cdx.transform.microsoft.com/help/faq).  
5. As the location, choose the region that is closest to your location.

    This setting determines the location in which the tenant is deployed, but you will be able to add [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] environments to it for any country/region afterwards.  

6. Choose one of the available content packs and then choose the **Create Tenant** button.  

    You can choose the **Dynamics 365 Business Central** content pack if the location you specified is *North America*, *Asia/Pacific*, or *Europe, Middle East, Africa*. This content pack includes demonstration users and Microsoft 365 licenses.  

    You can also choose any of the other content packs that might better match your prospects' industry or interests, such as the following content packs:

    * **Microsoft 365 Business Premium Demo Content**
    * **Microsoft Teams for Consumer Goods**
    * **Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement**

    These content packs give you a dedicated demonstration organization in Azure that includes multiple demo users with Microsoft 365 licenses.  

    > [!NOTE]
    > When demand for a specific content pack is high, the **Create Tenant** button is disabled, and you must choose a different content pack.

    Next, you sign up for a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] trial.  

7. In a dedicated browser window, go to the [https://dynamics.microsoft.com/business-central/](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/business-central/) page, choose the **Get started** button, and then choose the **Sign up now** button.  

    Use the new administrator account that you got as part of your demo account, typically called something like `admin@CRMbc123456.onmicrosoft.com`, or `admin@contoso.onmicrosoft.com`.  

    <!--Alternatively, if you used the **Dynamics 365 [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)]** content pack, go to [https://businesscentral.dynamics.com/?redirectedFromSignup=1&response=AlreadyAssignedLicense](https://businesscentral.dynamics.com/?redirectedFromSignup=1&response=AlreadyAssignedLicense) and sign in with the new administrator account that you got as part of your demo account, typically called something like `admin@CRMbc123456.onmicrosoft.com`, or `admin@contoso.onmicrosoft.com`.-->

    > [!TIP]
    > We recommend that you use profiles in the Microsoft Edge browser rather than InPrivate or Incognito browser mode. For more information, see [Microsoft Edge documentation](/microsoft-edge/).

By now, you have a dedicated demonstration organization in Azure that includes multiple demo users with Microsoft 365 licenses, and a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] environment.

The initial [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] demo environment comes with two companies:

* The CRONUS demonstration company  

* An empty company with the name *My Company*, but it might have a different display name for demo purposes  

You can keep using the demonstration company until the tenant expires, if you use it a couple of times per week. However, if you start the trial experience or switch to the empty *My Company*, that experience will expire after 30 days. If the trial expires, you can extend the trial, create a new environment, or return to the CRONUS demonstration company.

You can now enable the *Premium* user experience in the new company's **Company Information** page, populate the company with any data that is required for their evaluation scenarios, and present the environment to the prospect.

Commit message:

Trials expire (#2721)
* trial expiry

collab with Steffen Balslev

dev-itpro/developer/includes/admin_m365demo.md, after:

---
author: dmc-dk
ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: include
ms.reviewer: edupont
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.author: dmitrych
---
1. Log in to [aka.ms/cdx](https://aka.ms/cdx) using your partner account.
2. Choose the **My Environments** tab, and then, under **My tenants**, choose the **Create Tenant** button.
3. As the type, choose **Quick Tenant**.
4. As the period, choose either a quarter or a full year.

    Your account in CDX has access to a limited quota of tenants that can last three months or a full year. For more information, see the [CDX FAQ](https://cdx.transform.microsoft.com/help/faq).  
5. As the location, choose the region that is closest to your location.

    This setting determines the location in which the tenant is deployed, but you will be able to add [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] environments to it for any country/region afterwards.  

6. Choose one of the available content packs and then choose the **Create Tenant** button.  

    You can choose the **Dynamics 365 Business Central** content pack if the location you specified is *North America*, *Asia/Pacific*, or *Europe, Middle East, Africa*. This content pack includes demonstration users and Microsoft 365 licenses.  

    You can also choose any of the other content packs that might better match your prospects' industry or interests, such as the following content packs:

    * **Microsoft 365 Business Premium Demo Content**
    * **Microsoft Teams for Consumer Goods**
    * **Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement**

    These content packs give you a dedicated demonstration organization in Azure that includes multiple demo users with Microsoft 365 licenses.  

    > [!NOTE]
    > When demand for a specific content pack is high, the **Create Tenant** button is disabled, and you must choose a different content pack.

    Next, you sign up for a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] trial.  

7. In a dedicated browser window, go to the [https://dynamics.microsoft.com/business-central/](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/business-central/) page, choose the **Get started** button, and then choose the **Sign up now** button.  

    Use the new administrator account that you got as part of your demo account, typically called something like `admin@CRMbc123456.onmicrosoft.com`, or `admin@contoso.onmicrosoft.com`.  

    <!--Alternatively, if you used the **Dynamics 365 [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)]** content pack, go to [https://businesscentral.dynamics.com/?redirectedFromSignup=1&response=AlreadyAssignedLicense](https://businesscentral.dynamics.com/?redirectedFromSignup=1&response=AlreadyAssignedLicense) and sign in with the new administrator account that you got as part of your demo account, typically called something like `admin@CRMbc123456.onmicrosoft.com`, or `admin@contoso.onmicrosoft.com`.-->

    > [!TIP]
    > We recommend that you use profiles in the Microsoft Edge browser rather than InPrivate or Incognito browser mode. For more information, see [Microsoft Edge documentation](/microsoft-edge/).

By now, you have a dedicated demonstration organization in Azure that includes multiple demo users with Microsoft 365 licenses, and a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] environment.

The initial [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)] demo environment comes with two companies:

* The CRONUS demonstration company  

* An empty company with the name *My Company*, but it might have a different display name for demo purposes  

You can keep using the demonstration company until the tenant expires, if you use it a couple of times per week. However, if you start the trial experience or switch to the empty *My Company*, that experience will expire after 30 days. If the trial expires, you can extend the trial, create a new environment, or return to the CRONUS demonstration company. For more information, see [Dynamics 365 Business Central Trials and Subscriptions](/dynamics365/business-central/across-preview) in the business functionality content for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](prod_short.md)].

You can now enable the *Premium* user experience in the new company's **Company Information** page, populate the company with any data that is required for their evaluation scenarios, and present the environment to the prospect.
