dev-itpro/developer/app-faq-offer.md, before:

---
title: "FAQ about Managing and Submitting your Business Central Offer"
description: "Get answers to some of your questions about managing an offer in Partner Center when you build an app for Dynamics 365 Business Central"
author: freddyk
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.reviewer: edupont
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
ms.author: freddyk
---

# FAQ about Managing and Submitting your Business Central Offer

This section contains answers to frequently asked questions about managing the offer in Partner Center when you submit an app for [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)].

## If I click the Go Live button, does that mean my app will go live to AppSource?

No. This button is deceiving, and I wish it were worded differently. When you click this button, it triggers our validation process and puts your app into our validation queue.

## What should I know about the Review and publish button?

This is the button you should click when you want to submit your app for validation each time. Once you click the button, it takes you to a Review and publish page. Make sure all checkboxes are marked on that page. This pulls in all changed data into our validation queuing system properly.

## I only made marketing changes. Will my app have to go through technical validation?

No. If you do not change your app in a submission, we skip technical validation.

## See also

[FAQ about Updating your Business Central App](app-faq-update.md)  
[FAQ about Library & Dependency Apps in Business Central](app-faq-dependencies-libraries.md)  
[Update Lifecycle for AppSource Apps FAQ](devenv-update-app-life-cycle-faq.md)  
[The Lifecycle of Apps and Extensions for Business Central](devenv-app-life-cycle.md)

Commit message:

AppSource app submission validation telemetry (#2781)

dev-itpro/developer/app-faq-offer.md, after:

---
title: "FAQ about Managing and Submitting your Business Central Offer"
description: "Get answers to some of your questions about managing an offer in Partner Center when you build an app for Dynamics 365 Business Central"
author: freddyk
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.reviewer: edupont
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
ms.author: freddyk
---

# FAQ about Managing and Submitting your Business Central Offer

This section contains answers to frequently asked questions about managing the offer in Partner Center when you submit an app for [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)].

## If I click the Go Live button, does that mean my app will go live to AppSource?

No. This button is deceiving, and I wish it were worded differently. When you click this button, it triggers our validation process and puts your app into our validation queue.

## What should I know about the Review and publish button?

This is the button you should click when you want to submit your app for validation each time. Once you click the button, it takes you to a Review and publish page. Make sure all checkboxes are marked on that page. This pulls in all changed data into our validation queuing system properly.

## I only made marketing changes. Will my app have to go through technical validation?

No. If you do not change your app in a submission, we skip technical validation.

## Is there a good way get the status of the validation as it happens?

[!INCLUDE[appsource-appinsights](includes/appsource-appinsights.md)].


## See also

[FAQ about Updating your Business Central App](app-faq-update.md)  
[FAQ about Library & Dependency Apps in Business Central](app-faq-dependencies-libraries.md)  
[Update Lifecycle for AppSource Apps FAQ](devenv-update-app-life-cycle-faq.md)  
[The Lifecycle of Apps and Extensions for Business Central](devenv-app-life-cycle.md)
