---
title: "Temporary Tables"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/01/2020
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: "dynamics365-business-central"
---

# Temporary Tables
A temporary table is a temporary variable that holds a table. A temporary table is used as a buffer or intermediate storage for table data. If a temporary table is not used, the data must be handled by AL code.

 A temporary table is useful when the column data is not mapped directly to a field in the database but is instead the result of a process or operation, such as an aggregation of data from several columns. 

 You can use a temporary table just like you use a database table. The differences between a temporary table and a database table are as follows:  

-   A temporary table is not stored in the database, but is only held in memory until the table is closed.  

-   The write transaction principle that applies to a database table does not apply to a temporary table.  

## Advantage of a Temporary Table  
 The advantage of using a temporary table is that all the interaction with a temporary table occurs on [!INCLUDE[prodlong](includes/prodlong.md)]. This reduces the load on both the network and the SQL database server.  

 When you want to perform many operations on the data in a specific table in the database, you can load the data into a temporary table when you modify it. Loading the data into a temporary table speeds up the process because all the operations are performed in memory on the [!INCLUDE[server](includes/server.md)].  

## Defining and Using a Temporary Table  
 You must define the temporary table before you can use it in your AL code. The variable that holds a temporary table is defined just like any other global or local variable.  

To use a temporary table, you must create a [table object](devenv-table-object.md). Then create a local or global variable of the type record and add the [Temporary Property](properties/devenv-temporary-property.md). The syntax is shown in the following example:

```
var
    TempInvoicePostBuffer: Record "Invoice Post. Buffer" temporary;
```

You can manipulate the temporary table variable as you would with a database table, such as applying filters and performing searches. For more information, see [Record Data Type](methods-auto/record/record-data-type.md). 

> [!NOTE]  
>  XMLPort and report objects include a **Temporary property** that enables you to use temporary tables for storing the elements of data set that is generated by the objects. For more information, see [Temporary Property \(XMLports\)](properties/devenv-temporary-xmlports-property.md.md) and [Temporary Property \(Reports\)](properties/devenv-temporary-reports-property.md).  


## See Also  
[Getting Started with AL](devenv-get-started.md)    
[Table Object](devenv-table-object.md)
