dev-itpro/developer/devenv-creating-runtime-packages.md, before:

---
title: "Creating Runtime Packages for Business Central On-Premises"
description: "How to create runtime packages used for distribution of extensions."
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
ms.author: solsen
---


# Creating Runtime Packages for Business Central On-Premises

If you want to distribute extensions, you can generate runtime packages that do not contain AL code, but only the final artifacts used by the server at runtime. Runtime packages thereby allow you to protect the intellectual property represented by your AL source code. 

When the runtime package is generated on the server, the developer license is checked for permissions to the used extension IDs. The extension in a runtime package can then be installed on servers that do not have a developer license; the server only needs permissions to run the objects, but not to modify or insert them. 

## Start using runtime packages

The first step in using runtime packages is to have an extension developed and published to an on-premise instance.
Next, use the following PowerShell command to connect to the server, find the extension, and download the runtime package.

`Get-NavAppRuntimePackage`

For more information about this cmdlet, see [Get-NAVAppRuntimePackage cmdlet](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/Get-NAVAppRuntimePackage?view=businesscentral-ps).

The following example gets the NAV App runtime package with the provided name and version.

`Get-NAVAppRuntimePackage -ServerInstance DynamicsNAV -AppName 'Proseware SmartApp' -Version 2.3.4.500 -Path 'Prosware SmartApp_2.3.4.500_runtime.app'`

For publishing and installing the package, use the [Publish-NavApp](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/publish-navapp) and the [Install-NAVApp](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/install-navapp) PowerShell cmdlets. 

## Limitations

The limitation of runtime packages is that they only work for on-premise installations and therefore cannot be submitted to AppSource. Moreover, debugging into an extension to view the source code is not allowed by default; the `ShowMyCode` flag is by default set to `false`.

> [!NOTE]  
> Runtime packages are guaranteed to work only if published to a platform with the same version as the one where they were produced.

> [!NOTE]  
> If you set the `ShowMyCode` flag to `true` when running the `Get-NavAppRuntimePackage` cmdlet, you can enable debugging and you thereby also allow viewing the source code.

## See Also

[Publish-NAVApp cmdlet](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/publish-navapp)  
[Install-NAVApp cmdlet](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/install-navapp)

Commit message:

[AppSource] Mention runtime packages in Technical Validation Checklist

dev-itpro/developer/devenv-creating-runtime-packages.md, after:

---
title: "Creating Runtime Packages for Business Central On-Premises"
description: "How to create runtime packages used for distribution of extensions."
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
ms.author: solsen
---


# Creating Runtime Packages for Business Central On-Premises

If you want to distribute extensions, you can generate runtime packages that do not contain AL code, but only the final artifacts used by the server at runtime. Runtime packages thereby allow you to protect the intellectual property represented by your AL source code. 

When the runtime package is generated on the server, the developer license is checked for permissions to the used extension IDs. The extension in a runtime package can then be installed on servers that do not have a developer license; the server only needs permissions to run the objects, but not to modify or insert them. 

## Start using runtime packages

The first step in using runtime packages is to have an extension developed and published to an on-premise instance.
Next, use the following PowerShell command to connect to the server, find the extension, and download the runtime package.

`Get-NavAppRuntimePackage`

For more information about this cmdlet, see [Get-NAVAppRuntimePackage cmdlet](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/Get-NAVAppRuntimePackage?view=businesscentral-ps).

The following example gets the NAV App runtime package with the provided name and version.

`Get-NAVAppRuntimePackage -ServerInstance DynamicsNAV -AppName 'Proseware SmartApp' -Version 2.3.4.500 -Path 'Prosware SmartApp_2.3.4.500_runtime.app'`

For publishing and installing the package, use the [Publish-NavApp](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/publish-navapp) and the [Install-NAVApp](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/install-navapp) PowerShell cmdlets. 

## Limitations

The limitation of runtime packages is that they only work for on-premise installations and therefore cannot be submitted to AppSource. For more information about the extension requirements for AppSource, see [Technical Validation Checklist](devenv-checklist-submission.md). Moreover, debugging into an extension to view the source code is not allowed by default; the `ShowMyCode` flag is by default set to `false`.

> [!NOTE]  
> Runtime packages are guaranteed to work only if published to a platform with the same version as the one where they were produced.

> [!NOTE]  
> If you set the `ShowMyCode` flag to `true` when running the `Get-NavAppRuntimePackage` cmdlet, you can enable debugging and you thereby also allow viewing the source code.

## See Also

[Publish-NAVApp cmdlet](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/publish-navapp)  
[Install-NAVApp cmdlet](/powershell/module/microsoft.dynamics.nav.apps.management/install-navapp)
