---
title: "OnCustomDocumentMerger Event"
description: Describe the OnCustomDocumentMerger Event in Business Central.
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
author: jswymer
---
# OnCustomDocumentMerger Event

This article describes the syntax of the OnCustomDocumentMerger event which will enable use of custom renders given a dataset and a layout.

## Usage

Use the OnCustomDocumentMerger event to specify what happens when the user have specfied a custom report layout type that is to be rendered into an artifact in application code. For more information about subscribing to this event, see [Developing Report Custom Render Extensions Overview](devenv-reports-custom-render.md).

## Publisher

Codeunit **44 ReportManagement**.

## Raised

When a user runs a report that uses a custom layout format handled by application code (extension).

## Syntax

```AL
[IntegrationEvent(false, false)]
local procedure OnCustomDocumentMerger(ObjectID: Integer; ReportAction: Option SaveAsPdf,SaveAsWord,SaveAsExcel,Preview,Print,SaveAsHtml; XmlData: InStream; LayoutData: InStream; var targetDocumentStream: OutStream; var IsHandled: Boolean)
```

## Parameters

### *ObjectID*

Type: [Integer](methods-auto/integer/integer-data-type.md)

The ID of the report object to be run.

### *ReportAction*

Type: [Option]

Specifies the action to take in the custom document merge process.

Valid values include:

- `SaveAsPdf` Generate a pdf document in the target stream.
- `SaveAsWord` Generate a Microsoft Word document in the target stream.
- `SaveAsExcel` Generate a Microsoft Excel document in the target stream.
- `SaveAsHtml` Generate a html document in the target stream.
- `Preview` Generate a pdf document in the target stream, which the platform will download to the client for preview.
- `Print` Generate a pdf document in the target stream, which the platform will print using the printer specified for the present report id.

### *XmlData*

Type: [InStream](methods-auto/instream/instream-data-type.md)

A stream object that contains a the xml dataset generated by the platform runtime. This stream will contain the input data for the rendering process.

### *LayoutData*

Type: [InStream](methods-auto/instream/instream-data-type.md)

A stream object that contains the report layout to be used in the rendering process. The platform provides this data from the standard report layout selection logic and it will contain the currently selected layout.

### *Success*

Type: [Boolean](methods-auto/boolean/boolean-data-type.md)

Specifies whether the extension handled the merge action successfully.

## Note

>The platform will handle further processing of result stream and the extension code must return the rendered artifact in the target stream. Platform will handle:
>
>- Saving to a specified file in save-as scenarios
>- Saving to a given stream
>- Download to the client
>- Print or preview

## See Also

[Working With and Troubleshooting Payloads](devenv-reports-troubleshoot-printing.md)
[Developing Printer Extensions Overview](devenv-reports-printing.md)
[Creating a Printer Extension](devenv-reports-create-printer-extension.md)
[Events in AL](devenv-events-in-al.md)
[Publishing Events](devenv-publishing-events.md)
[Raising Events](devenv-raising-events.md)
[Subscribing to Events](devenv-subscribing-to-events.md)
