dev-itpro/upgrade/deprecated-features-ru.md, before:

---
title: Russian Features that are Moved, Removed, or Replaced | Microsoft Docs
description: We are constantly streamlining and adjusting our app in-step with market developments. Read about the features for Russia that we have moved, removed, or replaced.
author: AndreiPanko

ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: article
ms.devlang: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
ms. search.keywords: deprecated, Russia, local functionality
ms.date: 01/08/2021
ms.author: andreipa

---

# Deprecated Features in the Russian Version of [!INCLUDE [prod_long](../developer/includes/prod_long.md)]
This topic lists and describes the local functionality for Russia that has been removed from [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../developer/includes/prod_short.md)], made available from a new page or report, or replaced by a new feature.

## Item Documents
[!INCLUDE [prod_long](../developer/includes/prod_long.md)] includes several documents that you can use to manage your warehouse. 

|Moved, Removed, or Replaced?|Why?|
|----|----|
|Moved| The item documents are no longer specific to Russia, so we have made it generally available in the standard product. You can find them as Inventory Receipt and Inventory Shipment. |

## Custom Declaration
When printing Norwegian sales documents, you can set up different tray numbers and paper sources on the first, last, and other pages.

|Moved, Removed, or Replaced?|Why?|
|----|----|
|Replaced| The functionality has been moved to an extension. |

## Fields marked as ObsoleteState:Pending

[!INCLUDE [fields-obsolete-ru](../includes/fields-obsolete-ru.md)]

## See Also

[Upgrading to Business Central](upgrading-to-business-central.md)  
[Upgrading the Application Code](upgrading-the-application-code.md)  
[Deprecated Fields, and Fields Marked as Obsolete](deprecated-fields.md)  
[Russian Local Functionality](/dynamics365/business-central/LocalFunctionality/Russia/russia-local-functionality)

Commit message:

Deprecate RU Payroll (#2698)
* deprecate Payroll

* Update deprecated-features-w1.md

move definitions to include for standardization

dev-itpro/upgrade/deprecated-features-ru.md, after:

---
title: Russian Features that are Moved, Removed, or Replaced
description: We are constantly streamlining and adjusting our app in-step with market developments. Read about the features for Russia that we have moved, removed, or replaced.
author: AndreiPanko

ms.service: dynamics365-business-central
ms.topic: article
ms.devlang: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
ms. search.keywords: deprecated, Russia, local functionality
ms.date: 05/20/2021
ms.author: andreipa

---

# Deprecated Features in the Russian Version of [!INCLUDE [prod_long](../includes/prod_long.md)]

This article describes the features that will be or have been moved, removed, or replaced in the local functionality for Russia in [!INCLUDE[prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)].

[!INCLUDE [feature-deprecation](../includes/feature-deprecation.md)]

## Changes in 2021 release wave 2

### Human Resources and Payroll module

|Moved, Removed, or Replaced?|Why?|Replacement availability|
|----|----|----|
|Removed| To help make sure that we provide the very best solutions for our customers, we will remove the Russian payroll capabilities from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)] in release 2021 wave 2. Payroll is not included in the world-wide strategic focus of the Microsoft Dynamics 365 portfolio. Partners and ISVs are best positioned to provide payroll functionality that remains compliant with local regulation and tax updates. We will continue to offer mainstream support for the existing [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)] payroll functionality accordingly to the [product lifecycle information](/lifecycle/products/?products=dynamics&terms=Business%20Central%20on-premises).|We recommend that our customers work with their implementation partner to determine the best local payroll solution based on their specific needs.|

## Changes before 2021 release wave 1

### Item Documents

[!INCLUDE [prod_long](../includes/prod_long.md)] includes several documents that you can use to manage your warehouse.  

|Moved, Removed, or Replaced?|Why?|
|----|----|
|Moved| The item documents are no longer specific to Russia, so we have made it generally available in the standard product. You can find them as Inventory Receipt and Inventory Shipment. |

### Custom Declaration

When printing sales documents, you can set up different tray numbers and paper sources on the first, last, and other pages.

|Moved, Removed, or Replaced?|Why?|
|----|----|
|Replaced| The functionality has been moved to an extension. |

## Fields marked as ObsoleteState:Pending

[!INCLUDE [fields-obsolete-ru](../includes/fields-obsolete-ru.md)]

## See Also

[Upgrading to Business Central](upgrading-to-business-central.md)  
[Upgrading the Application Code](upgrading-the-application-code.md)  
[Deprecated Fields, and Fields Marked as Obsolete](deprecated-fields.md)  
[Russian Local Functionality](/dynamics365/business-central/LocalFunctionality/Russia/russia-local-functionality)
