dev-itpro/developer/methods-auto/record/record-addloadfields-method.md, before:

---
title: "Record.AddLoadFields Method"
ms.author: solsen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 11/23/2020
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
---
[//]: # (START>DO_NOT_EDIT)
[//]: # (IMPORTANT:Do not edit any of the content between here and the END>DO_NOT_EDIT.)
[//]: # (Any modifications should be made in the .xml files in the ModernDev repo.)
# Record.AddLoadFields Method
> **Version**: _Available from runtime version 6.0._

Specifies fields to be initially loaded when the record is retrieved from its data source. Subsequent calls to AddLoadFields will not overwrite fields already selected for the initial load.


## Syntax
```
[Ok := ]  Record.AddLoadFields([Fields: Any,...])
```
## Parameters
*Record*
&emsp;Type: [Record](record-data-type.md)
An instance of the [Record](record-data-type.md) data type.

*Fields*  
&emsp;Type: [Any](../any/any-data-type.md)  
The FieldNo's of the fields to be loaded.  


## Return Value
*Ok*
&emsp;Type: [Boolean](../boolean/boolean-data-type.md)
**true** if all fields are selected for subsequent loads; otherwise, **false**. If you omit this optional return value and the operation does not execute successfully, a runtime error will occur.  


[//]: # (IMPORTANT: END>DO_NOT_EDIT)

## Remarks

This method is part of the partial records capability for improving performance. For more information, see [Using Partial Records](../../devenv-partial-records.md).

## Example

The following example code shows how to use the AddLoadFields method to add a field for loading on a report. The example loads a field that is outside of the default fields selected by DataColumns of the report. The field is added by using the AddLoadFields on the [OnPreDataItem trigger](../../triggers/devenv-onpredataitem-trigger.md).

```al
trigger OnPreDataItem()
begin
    CurrencyDataItem.AddLoadFields(CurrencyDataItem."ISO Numeric Code");
end;

trigger OnAfterGetRecord()
begin
    if (CurrencyDataItem."ISO Numeric Code" <> 'DKK') then begin
        CurrReport.Skip();
    end;
end;
```

## See Also

[Using Partial Records](../../devenv-partial-records.md)  
[Record Data Type](record-data-type.md)  
[Getting Started with AL](../../devenv-get-started.md)  
[Developing Extensions](../../devenv-dev-overview.md)

Commit message:

Add remark about adding system fields to Partial Records API's

dev-itpro/developer/methods-auto/record/record-addloadfields-method.md, after:

---
title: "Record.AddLoadFields Method"
ms.author: solsen
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 11/23/2020
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
---
[//]: # (START>DO_NOT_EDIT)
[//]: # (IMPORTANT:Do not edit any of the content between here and the END>DO_NOT_EDIT.)
[//]: # (Any modifications should be made in the .xml files in the ModernDev repo.)
# Record.AddLoadFields Method
> **Version**: _Available from runtime version 6.0._

Specifies fields to be initially loaded when the record is retrieved from its data source. Subsequent calls to AddLoadFields will not overwrite fields already selected for the initial load.


## Syntax
```
[Ok := ]  Record.AddLoadFields([Fields: Any,...])
```
## Parameters
*Record*
&emsp;Type: [Record](record-data-type.md)
An instance of the [Record](record-data-type.md) data type.

*Fields*  
&emsp;Type: [Any](../any/any-data-type.md)  
The FieldNo's of the fields to be loaded.  


## Return Value
*Ok*
&emsp;Type: [Boolean](../boolean/boolean-data-type.md)
**true** if all fields are selected for subsequent loads; otherwise, **false**. If you omit this optional return value and the operation does not execute successfully, a runtime error will occur.  


[//]: # (IMPORTANT: END>DO_NOT_EDIT)

## Remarks
It is not necessary to include the following fields: Primary key, SystemId, and Audit fields (SystemCreatedAt, SystemCreatedBy, SystemModifiedAt, SystemModifiedBy) since they are always selcted for loading.

This method is part of the partial records capability for improving performance. For more information, see [Using Partial Records](../../devenv-partial-records.md).

## Example

The following example code shows how to use the AddLoadFields method to add a field for loading on a report. The example loads a field that is outside of the default fields selected by DataColumns of the report. The field is added by using the AddLoadFields on the [OnPreDataItem trigger](../../triggers/devenv-onpredataitem-trigger.md).

```al
trigger OnPreDataItem()
begin
    CurrencyDataItem.AddLoadFields(CurrencyDataItem."ISO Numeric Code");
end;

trigger OnAfterGetRecord()
begin
    if (CurrencyDataItem."ISO Numeric Code" <> 'DKK') then begin
        CurrReport.Skip();
    end;
end;
```

## See Also

[Using Partial Records](../../devenv-partial-records.md)  
[Record Data Type](record-data-type.md)  
[Getting Started with AL](../../devenv-get-started.md)  
[Developing Extensions](../../devenv-dev-overview.md)
