dev-itpro/terms/legal.md, before:

---
title: "Legal Resources for Business Central online"
description: Get a list of links to legal information for Business Central, including the online service terms for Business Central online. 
author: jswymer
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/01/2021
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
---
# Legal Landing Page for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central

This page provides links to legal information for Business Central. 

## Microsoft Online Service Terms (OST)

- [Online Service Terms(OST)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/licensing/product-licensing/products)

## Microsoft AL Language

- [AL Language - Terms of Use](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2147711)
- [AL Extension Third Party Notice](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2147610)

## Envestnet Yodlee - Bank Feeds

- [Envestnet Yodlee - Bank Feeds Terms and Conditions](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2147413)

## Trial Services terms 

- [Trial Services terms](/dynamics365/legal/slt-dynamics365-viraltrial#2)

<!--## Teams integration-->

<!--- links-->

## See Also

[Privacy FAQ](../security/PrivacyFAQ.md)  
[Legal Resources for Business Central On-Premises](legal-onpremises.md)  
[Developer and Administration Help for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central](../index.md)

Commit message:

lifecycle policy (#2585)
* link to lifecycle docs

new links

dev-itpro/terms/legal.md, after:

---
title: "Legal Resources for Business Central online"
description: Get a list of links to legal information for Business Central, including the online service terms for Business Central online. 
author: jswymer
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 04/13/2021
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.service: "dynamics365-business-central"
---
# Legal Landing Page for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central

This page provides links to legal information for Business Central.  

## Microsoft Online Service Terms (OST)

- [Online Service Terms(OST)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/licensing/product-licensing/products)

## Microsoft AL Language

- [AL Language - Terms of Use](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2147711)
- [AL Extension Third Party Notice](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2147610)

## Envestnet Yodlee - Bank Feeds

- [Envestnet Yodlee - Bank Feeds Terms and Conditions](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2147413)

## Trial Services terms 

- [Trial Services terms](/dynamics365/legal/slt-dynamics365-viraltrial#2)

<!--## Teams integration-->

## Lifecycle policy

- [Lifecycle policy for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](../includes/prod_short.md)] online](/lifecycle/products/dynamics-365-business-central)
<!--- links-->

## See Also

[Privacy FAQ](../security/PrivacyFAQ.md)  
[Legal Resources for Business Central On-Premises](legal-onpremises.md)  
[Developer and Administration Help for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central](../index.md)
